# Parking-Citations-in-Los-Angeles-using-R
This dataset contains Parking Citation in City of Los Angeles from year 2010. Parking tickets or citations are issued by parking enforcement officials for violating state (California Vehicle Code) or city (Los Angeles Municipal Code) parking laws. (Angeles,2016) A parking violation is made when a motor vehicle is parked in a restricted place or for parking in an unauthorized manner. Analysis in Citation data every year gives us insights in approximating the revenue government will make in coming years and allow them to take measures necessary for improving parking scenario in the city. (Romero,2016)  Citations made in and around university campuses, commercial complexes and private properties are separately handled by parking enforcement of respective officials. LADOT operates 118 public parking facilities throughout the City of Los Angeles with more than 11,500 parking spaces.(LACity,2016) Traffic officers issue about 2.5 million citations each year. The dataset has parking citations listed from 2010 to 2016 and the size is 480 MB. There are more than four million entries and every citation has big amount of data such as person’s vehicle VIN number, Violation Description, date and time, RP state plate, location, latitude and longitude etc. which is recorded every day. This recorded data goes on increasing day by day, and hence analyzing this dataset with R will provide clear picture of parking citations in the City of Los Angeles. This analysis will help us to understand and recognize extra parking required in certain areas with less or reserved/permit parking.
